---
title: "Presentation on joint value of information and energy aware sleep scheduling in wireless sensor networks"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/ICC2018
venue: "IEEE International Conference on Communications "
date: 2018-05-07
location: "MO, USA"
---

Description
===========
Wireless sensor networks are communication networks composed of spatially distributed sensors. Mostly sensors are
small, lightweight, equipped with a microcomputer, transducer,transceiver, and a limited power source. Sensors use three types of communications: clock-driven, event-driven or query-driven. No matter which type of communication is in use, the main issue has always been the energy consumption. Even though some wireless sensors have been recently developed to scavenge energy from the natural
environment, such as solar, heat, or vibration, efficient energy usage is still a primary concern in underwater wireless sensor
networks. One of the other important factors in the realm of WNS regarding data gathering is value of information (VoI). VoI refers
to the profit that the information brings to the user. For example, if an oil leak occurs, as soon as this event is reported to the
oil rig company, they can start the repair process to prevent further damages and environmental hazards. Generally, value of data information is considered as the benefits obtained by having that data and responding correspondingly in a timely manner. Moreover, the sooner the company is informed, more cost savings can occur due to dimished need for environmental cleanup. we can employ linear programming (LP) to establish a paradigm of cross-layer formulation to capture the interplay between scheduling and routing. We proposeed a biobjective model of data value of information maximization and energy cost minimization in a WSN. Compared to existing work, our formulation is not only bi-objective which considers both data value of information and energy consumption jointly, but also is more realistic given that it explicitly accounts for different types of signal interference that may affect a wireless transmission.
